it's really easy to mislead yourself
when you're looking back to your life
about what the decisions were that you
made in relation to your own career in
education about short-term decisions
that had long-term consequences but one
information you had at the time of what
information did not I have known a lot
of people who consciously and
intentionally cultivated sort of
Mythology around themselves who invented
lies about the decisions they made why
they took on the career and education
directions they did but even if you're
not in that school of thought even if
you're not intentionally lying to
yourself and others it's really easy to
remember your own life as if you had
access to information at the time that
you did not in fact have I made a lot of
decisions last two years that I regret
but in talking about them I have to be
really clear about what I knew what I
assumed what I thought I knew and you
know what my hopes and aspirations were
sure but how differently I now perceive
the situation from how I were pursued at
the time very easy to go back and
rewrite your own personal history with
no bad intentions because you forget
what you didn't know you have to tell
the story
placing sufficient emphasis on what you
did not know so in terms of career in
education right right off right off the
top here I'm now living in de Hong
cheyna de Hong is in Yunnan Province on
the border with Myanmar when I first
moved here when I first made the
decision to move here my employer asked
me to stay for three years minimum and
said I they would be happy to have me
for five years as a professor so that's
pretty long-term employment and they did
one of the questions they asked and the
job interview was how many years can you
stay and I said five years no problem
and they said okay great they would
probably do a contract off the bat for
three years that it commits to employing
me for three years so already it's it's
very easy to forget that in retrospect
right so I've been here for you know
like ten months
like a 10 month period and again one
academic year is almost never 12 months
you know an academic year can be eight
months but this is less than a one-year
gig for me it turns out and that I'm
going back to Canada so there's a lot
already packed into that why would I
have made the decision to move from
Canada couldn't mang why did they make
the decision to move from Kunming to
Hong and why do I regret it now one of
the things that really shaped this
decision was the pressure on me which I
felt profoundly to have a home or I
could host my own daughter visiting me
so my daughter is now four years old she
was three years old when I was worried
about this I felt that I was in a
situation where any time my lawyer could
tell me hey we made progress on your
case now you've got visitation rights
for your daughter visitation rights
means temporary custody you know for a
few weeks here or there your daughters
coming over so now guess what all of a
sudden your daughter's coming over to
stager at your house so I did not want
to be in a one-bedroom basement
apartment in Canada when that happened
when I lived together was in the
basement apartment free I was on the
fourth floor the way I was in an
apartment building I wanted to be in a
real home with real facilities in real
space just you know a beautiful home
where I could really host my daughter so
this job offered me that it is a
beautiful huge apartment it's big enough
for a family of four five or six it's
big enough for a family of four at least
and I know other professors who live in
this building who live in identical
apartments and I have a family of four
or more so that's that's no joke it's a
beautiful apartment it's in a beautiful
place it's in a location where I'd be
proud to have my daughter here there's a
fabulous swimming pool down the road I
remember when I first moved in here for
first visit here actually I took
photographs of this swimming pool and
sent them to my ex-wife there are palm
trees there there's a beautiful mountain
you can walk up the side of there are a
lot of activities here for a three and
four year old that'd be fabulous and
also fundamentally I just have the
floorspace of a great kitchen at great
floor space where I can have a
three-year-old or four-year-old sitting
and playing with Lego on the floor this
is a home where
be happy to host my daughter so right
away in terms of the offer to come here
for like five years
this is a huge incentive for me and now
with the information I have now I
totally regret that decision
because I now know it was basically
impossible for me to be in the situation
I was fearing and preparing for
practically right because the reality is
what the French court system did to me
and I think a good lawyer could have
advised me this would happen or anyone
with a lot of experience in French
divorce court could have advised me the
reality the situation I was in was that
ah my daughter wouldn't come here to
join me instead I would go there I would
have to rent an apartment in France
going hang out there now another thing
that really motivated me which again is
now hard to remember it in retrospect is
that prior to learning Chinese I had
years of experience working on the
related Southeast Asian languages of
Palli lao tai cambodian even burmese i
had worked on these Southeast Asian
languages that are very closely related
to the local language here which is
called Daiyu de Hong died the de Hong
Tai language so the idea of moving here
and living here for several years was
not just to learn Chinese as a language
but would have opened the door to my
being engaged with a language that
incredibly few Westerners have studied
and that I was incredibly well prepared
for having worked on Lao having worked
on northern Lao aka tightener and having
worked on poly as a written language as
a dead language
moving to Hong presented me with the
opportunity not only to sort of complete
my Chinese language education but to
also to move forward and move backward
in my career at the same time to move
forward to a new area of language study
because I'd never worked on de Hong died
specifically but in a sense it was also
moving backward it was capitalizing on
it was me
he's something useful out of more than
ten years of research in my life more
than ten years of research that I did
while living in Canada also a living in
Laos Thailand Cambodia and while living
in Jing Hong Jing Hong Yun and while
living in kunming yunnan back in 2002
seven two thousand two thousand seven
two thousand eight you know here was an
opportunity for me not just to progress
further with my knowledge of the Chinese
language but in a sense to regress to go
back to a group of languages that I
really worked very hard on in the past
and that I could now develop specialized
expertise in and I knew just one white
man who had a PhD in that area one white
man who was a PhD into home dye and I
think he's the only english-speaking man
to have a PhD in that language in don't
I
so I say white man to be brief obviously
you know totally happy to work with a
you know a black person or you know
anyone who speaks English ooh who's that
language but I'm using that as a
shorthand to mean he's someone who's a
scholar in that field who doesn't speak
you know Chinese as his first language
or doesn't speak Southeast Asian
languages first language he's he's a
white Australian who comes out of that
academic background so there seem to be
unique opportunities long term
opportunities linked to moving here and
I now know that absolutely all of them
are Hollow
all of them are unreal based on the
information I have today I completely
regret my decision to move here in
reality after six or seven months and
could mang learning Chinese
I had already accomplished the purpose
of this trip and the smart thing for me
to have done would have been to move
back to Canada as soon as possible get
back into a master's degree in Canada as
soon as possible finish my second BA
University of Victoria I have one BA
from University of Toronto finished my
second ba University of Victoria go on
to get an MA at University Victoria and
then go on to get a PhD ASAP what really
made sense with all the information I
had now would have been to go back to
Canada and get on the PhD track
absolutely
as soon as possible but there was
another motivation a kind of short-term
motivation that has long-term
implications my father was dying my
father was dying a long slow death and
he's now deceased and I did feel the
pressure to get a job here in China
simply because that was what I promised
to do in the first place when I came
over now there's a really funny story
there that I'm not gonna tell it's a
really funny story that's hard to
summarize and make brief but when I
first moved to come in it wasn't just to
become a student I was supposed to be a
student temporarily for just a couple of
months and then I was supposed to start
this job as a university professor a
university instructor teaching English
in a small university in Kunming so
could make as a much bigger city that's
coming into Hong or two different places
the bus trip between could Ming and de
Hong is about 12 hours they're far apart
and there are a lot of mountains in
between all right but just for that
reason I did feel as though as soon as I
came to Kunming as soon as I came here
to China I had to kind of pound the
pavement and find a job here because my
father who paid for my airplane ticket
over here my father who paid for me to
be in Chinese language lessons in
conveying and who to some extent I think
really did understand the situation he
assumed that I was not just coming here
to study but it was also coming here to
work and you know again it's really easy
to get these things mixed up in your own
mind in your own heart at the time and
in retrospect the truth is the only
reason why that job was worth taking was
the short term opportunity to learn and
practice speaking Chinese so after six
months in China there was no point in
accepting a job that kind anyway there
was no point in pursuing or applying for
job at that kind anyway my reasons for
doing that were already defunct they
were already obsolete I should have gone
back to Canada right away got back into
a master's program in the back into a
PhD track as soon as possible that would
have been a smart thing to do
but again there was this looming
pressure on me to have a home a real
home and a real job for my daughter to
be a host to my daughter
there was this looming pressure on me
which again is partly just in my own
imagination but partly was something
explicitly discussed with me and my
father who was on his deathbed to have
have a job here in China to be employed
here not to just study here and then go
back and go back into a you know
university education in Canada there was
this prospect of studying these more
obscure languages till Hong died and
also to make use of the education area
in Pali
which you know Mancha seemed to present
to me and thought there was there are a
few more factors that are slipping my
mind now and I really wanted to get this
down in video I really wanted to get
these reflections down in video because
I know this is something my own mother
doesn't understand my mother doesn't
understand what what kind of went into
this these decisions and I'm even afraid
that I'm gonna lose sight of this I'm
afraid that I'm gonna forget why it was
I made these series of decisions for
such peculiar short-term reasons that
are now going to have such a long-term
impact in my life there are some people
on live streaming right now and you know
[Music]
now in going back to Canada I'm looking
at enrolling in a course in cuisine to
train to become a baker I'm looking at
getting education in baking bread baking
pastries so that I have a basis both for
the future of the vegan movement and for
my own financial future so that I could
one day open my own bakery or indeed
obviously work in other people's
bakeries maybe run a catering service on
the side it's really easy to imagine
baking and catering whether it's bread
or pastries or what-have-you
being a vegan Baker it's really easy for
me to imagine that being something
positive I could do while engaged in
getting an MA and PhD well engage in
long years of research and education
before I get my next real paying gig I
can imagine it being very positive thing
however it's misleading to look at that
as like a well-put-together plan or a
decision I made rationally and thinking
thinking long-term the reality is I was
forced into a short-term crisis just
because of the court-ordered dates on
which I have to go and visit my daughter
my ex-wife could negotiate with me to
change the dates I would have only
wanted to change them by about two weeks
or something one way or the other
but max wife refused to do so and I had
a really brief window of opportunity
between when this job ended in China
when then I would have had to leave this
job in China fly back to Canada where I
have no apartment I have no home find a
new apartment rent a new apartment
furnish a new apartment start a new life
with nothing kind of thing and roll in
classes at UVic get back into the school
start that again and then fly to France
and then fly back from France to Canada
the timeline was almost impossible
because of the court order dates for
when I had to fly to France and see my
daughter for the second time I've
already visited her once I had no choice
about that my ex-wife refused to let me
you know
just move the dates by a couple weeks to
make it possible and I had no way of
knowing that in advance I had no way of
planning around that in terms of this
job or going back to University of
storia so I suddenly had this hole
created in my schedule where I can't go
back to Victoria and resume my education
now so again if I had known this if I
had known any of this I never would have
moved to doe Hong I never would have
taken up this job in China I would have
wrapped up studying Chinese and
conveying as soon as possible I would
have gone back to you there and again
gone on the MA and PhD track absolutely
as soon as possible and it's only
because of this short-term crisis which
is created ultimately by my need to go
and visit my daughter and my need to go
and visit my daughter on a court-ordered
schedule etc it's only because of that
that I'm now looking at going back to
Ontario different part of Canada and
rolling in baking college getting a
credential and possibly getting a whole
new career as a
in Baker before I go back to University
of Victoria finish that BA get an MA in
the ph.d track during which time I hope
I'm gonna have credentials as a as a
vegan Baker so there's there's a lot
more packed into this my point is I'm
making this video really trying to be
honest with myself I'm really trying to
be honest mental mom I'm definitely
gonna send her copy of this video and
you know whatever if my daughter sees
this ten years now of being honest my
own daughter too
a lot of people make these kinds of
decisions short term and whether you
regret them or embrace them I mean I've
got to say if somebody asked me why did
I end up as a major in political science
back in 1997 1998 when I was a
University of Toronto when I was going
through university first time
the truth is there's no good answer
there's a really complex story about
totally surreal short-term conditions
and a short-term crisis and by making
that decision with none of the
information I needed to make a good
decision and no no source of guidance
that would help me the decisions I made
sincerely trying to do my best in
relation to this divorce in relation to
the languages I was studying in
relations to my academic career and so
on short term decisions where I had none
of the information I needed and it's
really easy with no intent to deceive
and no intention with self-deception no
attention to to make a myth out of my
own life it's really easy for me to look
back in these last two years and just
get garbled up in my own mind's eye what
information I had and what information I
did not have when I made these decisions
to move to conveying to move to de Hong
concerning when I was going to return to
Canada and what I was gonna do when I
get there but long story short I'm not
no see about this word regret and I've
got to tell you I regret it all all of
the decisions give the information I
have now even given some of these some
of the really simple information I wish
my
Claire had given me I regret going to
University of Victoria in the first
place
I regret majoring in Chinese I regret
switching the major to Japanese after
that I regret moving to Kunming I regret
moving to Mancha one of the main reasons
I came out here to Kunming and then
later to dil Hong well I came here to
unite China was also the awareness this
would be a great place for Max wife
because this is exactly this is where I
used to live with Max wife I live with
my ex-wife in I met her in Jing Hong Yu
nan and then we moved to Kunming
together back in 2007-2008 we used to
live together and could mean this is a
great place for her and her
anthropological research what she did
her PhD in this is a great place for her
to visit me you know if she was bringing
my daughter over to spend time with me
here something I now know will never
happen this seemed like the right
decision this seemed like a great option
and a great opportunity for me and for
my family in a sense of family that
includes my ex-wife you know it seemed
like the right decision for so many
reasons but keeping it all the way real
knowing what I now know it was wrong
wrong wrong